Razor syntax updates (#13524)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/mvc/views/razor.md

> Scope-level actions can be performed with [Tag Helpers](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/intro).

Author: As part of the effort to streamline this topic, I'll strike this line. Generally, I'll try to make each section's content pertain to the gesture at hand.

Later in this article, the section [Inspect the Razor C# class generated for a view](#inspect-the-razor-c-class-generated-for-a-view) explains how to view this generated class.

### \@attribute

The `@attribute` directive adds the given attribute to the class of the generated page or view. The following example adds the `[Authorize]` attribute:

```cshtml
@attribute [Authorize]
```

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

### \@code

> *This scenario only applies to Razor components (.razor).*

Reviewer: Create a new H2 at the end of the file 

## Razor components specific

This scenario only applies to Razor components (.razor)

Move all 7 of your `This scenario only applies to Razor components (.razor)` to that section.

Author: Ping @danroth27 @NTaylorMullen for more info here on future plans. (You can skip to the last line if you want. :wink:)

I'm concerned about the layout: There are *directives* and *directive attributes*, so the topic might end up with four sections depending on what the framework offers down the road if we split out RC right now:

* RP/views
  * Directives
  * Directive attributes
* RC
  * Directives
  * Directive attributes

I was under the impression that at least some of the Razor Component-only scenarios (directive attributes) would be available for RP/views one day. Therefore, I structured the content to handle those framework enhancements should they occur ...

* Directives (alphabetical with qualifying lines for RP/view-only and RC-only scenarios)
* Directive attributes (alphabetical with qualifying lines for RP/view-only and RC-only scenarios)

The current layout provides for straightforward updates ...

* Just remove the 'This is RC only' line for any of the scenarios added on this PR when one or more become available for RP/views in the future.
* In the future, a scenario is added by the framework+docs to either the *Directives* or *Directive attributes* sections and ...
  * No qualifying line indicates that the scenario applies to both.
  * Use the 'This is RP/views only' line.
  * Use 'This is RC only' line.

Couldn't be simpler imo ... for the readers and the team.

If we go with a RC-specific section and some of the RC-only scenarios are extended to cover RP/views, duplicate content will result or the layout will need to go to what I have on this PR.

**TL;DR** ... *the 9-volume book!* :smile: 

**Will some or all of these new Razor Components Razor syntax scenarios (perhaps just the directive attributes) be coming to a Razor Pages page or MVC view _near you?!_** :point_left: If **_No! Never!_**, then let's try the RC-only section approach (but I'm also concerned about the 'end of the file' location ... that seems out-of-order). If **_Sure thing! Why the heck not?!_** :tada:, then I recommend the current approach on the PR now.

The `@code` directive enables a [Razor component](xref:blazor/components) to add C# members (fields, properties, and methods) to a component:

```cshtml
@code {
    // C# members (fields, properties, and methods)
}
```

For Razor components, `@code` is an alias of [@functions](#functions) and recommended over `@functions`. More than one `@code` directive is permissible.

::: moniker-end

### \@functions

> The `@functions` directive enables a Razor Page to add C# members (fields, properties, and methods) to a view:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `@functions` directive enables adding C# members (fields, properties, and methods) to the generate class:
```

Later in this article, the section [Inspect the Razor C# class generated for a view](#inspect-the-razor-c-class-generated-for-a-view) explains how to view this generated class.

### \@attribute

The `@attribute` directive adds the given attribute to the class of the generated page or view. The following example adds the `[Authorize]` attribute:

```cshtml
@attribute [Authorize]
```

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

> ### \@code

Reviewer 3: I'd add the this is only applicable in .razor files snippet

::: moniker-end

### \@functions

The `@functions` directive enables a Razor Page to add C# members (fields, properties, and methods) to a view:

```cshtml
@functions {
    // C# members (fields, properties, and methods)
}
```

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

> [!NOTE]
> In [Razor components](xref:blazor/components), use `@code` over `@functions` to add C# members.

::: moniker-end

For example:

[!code-cshtml[](razor/sample/Views/Home/Contact6.cshtml)]

The code generates the following HTML markup:

```html
<div>From method: Hello</div>
```

The following code is the generated Razor C# class:

[!code-csharp[](razor/sample/Classes/Views_Home_Test_cshtml.cs?range=1-19)]

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

`@functions` methods serve as templating methods when they have markup:

```cshtml
@{
    RenderName("Mahatma Gandhi");
    RenderName("Martin Luther King, Jr.");
}

@functions {
    private void RenderName(string name)
    {
        <p>Name: <strong>@name</strong></p>
    }
}
```

The code renders the following HTML:

```html
<p>Name: <strong>Mahatma Gandhi</strong></p>
<p>Name: <strong>Martin Luther King, Jr.</strong></p>
```

::: moniker-end

> ### \@implements

Reviewer 3: This was added in 3.0, also it uses an `@code` in the body. I'd change it to `@functions` so it's .cshtml/.razor compatible.

Later in this article, the section [Inspect the Razor C# class generated for a view](#inspect-the-razor-c-class-generated-for-a-view) explains how to view this generated class.

### \@attribute

The `@attribute` directive adds the given attribute to the class of the generated page or view. The following example adds the `[Authorize]` attribute:

```cshtml
@attribute [Authorize]
```

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

> ### \@code

Author: > all-encompassing Razor

I asked about that. Dan said, https://github.com/aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/13465#issuecomment-514818607.

> differentiate cshtml and .razor pages

If you mean for code blocks, *yes*. That's the only effort that I'm aware of at this time. It isn't done yet tho. When it is, we'll be able to have `cshtml` and `razor` code blocks. For now, we can only use `cshtml`.

The `@code` directive enables a [Razor component](xref:blazor/components) to add C# members (fields, properties, and methods) to a component:

```cshtml
@code {
    // C# members
}
```

`@code` is an alias of [@functions](#functions) and recommended over `@functions` for Razor components. More than one `@code` directive is permissible.

::: moniker-end

### \@functions

The `@functions` directive enables a Razor Page to add C# members (fields, properties, and methods) to a view:

```cshtml
@functions {
    // C# members
}
```

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

> [!NOTE]

> > In [Razor components](xref:blazor/components), use `@code` over `@functions` to add C# members.

Reviewer 3: In Blazor we should always recommend @code. Outside of Blazor users only have @functions

| *Pages/MorePages/Page.cshtml*               | `Hello.World.MorePages`               |
| *Pages/MorePages/EvenMorePages/Page.cshtml* | `Hello.World.MorePages.EvenMorePages` |

When multiple import files have a `@namespace` directive, the file closest to the page, view, or component in the directory tree is used to set the root namespace.

If the *EvenMorePages* folder in the preceding example has an imports file with `@namespace Another.Planet` (or the *Pages/MorePages/EvenMorePages/Page.cshtml* file contains `@namespace Another.Planet`), the result is shown in the following table.

| Page                                        | Namespace               |
| ------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| *Pages/Index.cshtml*                        | `Hello.World`           |
| *Pages/MorePages/Page.cshtml*               | `Hello.World.MorePages` |
| *Pages/MorePages/EvenMorePages/Page.cshtml* | `Another.Planet`        |

### \@page

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

The `@page` directive has different effects depending on the type of the file where it appears. The directive:

> * Turns a file into an MVC action, which means that the file handles requests directly, without going through a controller. For more information, see <xref:razor-pages/index>.

Reviewer 2: While this is technically true, but I think it would be simpler to say that the `@page` directive in a .cshtml file indicates that the file is a Razor Page. Is there a reason this wording was used?

Author: Taken from engineering language ... sounds kind'a *Ryan-y* to me. :smile: lol

I'll use your language.

* Specifies that a Razor component should handle requests directly. For more information, see <xref:blazor/routing>.

::: moniker-end

> ::: moniker range="< aspnetcore-3.0"

Reviewer: Why does this apply to < vers 3 only?

Author: Can't split the bullets of a list. For >=3.0, there are two bullets (Razor Pages and Razor Components). For <3.0, there's only a single item in sentence format for Razor Pages. WRT "sentence format," I try to steer clear of single-bullet lists outside of *Additional Resources* sections.

> The `@page` directive turns a file into an MVC action, which means that the file handles requests directly, without going through a controller. For more information, see <xref:razor-pages/index>.

Reviewer: The `@page` directive on the first line of a *.cshtml* file indicates that the file is a [Razor Page](xref:razor-pages/index).

::: moniker-end

### \@section

*This scenario only applies to MVC views and Razor Pages (.cshtml).*

The `@section` directive is used in conjunction with [MVC and Razor Pages layouts](xref:mvc/views/layout) to enable views or pages to render content in different parts of the HTML page. For more information, see <xref:mvc/views/layout>.

### \@using

The `@using` directive adds the C# `using` directive to the generated view:

[!code-cshtml[](razor/sample/Views/Home/Contact9.cshtml)]

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

In [Razor components](xref:blazor/components), `@using` also controls which components are in scope.

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

## Directive attributes

*Directive attribute scenarios in this section only apply to Razor components (.razor).*

### \@attributes

*This scenario only applies to Razor components (.razor).*

> A component can capture and render additional attributes in addition to the component's declared parameters using the `@attributes` Razor directive. For more information, see <xref:blazor/components#attribute-splatting-and-arbitrary-parameters>.

Reviewer: `@attributes`  allows a component to render non-declared attributes. For more information, see <xref:blazor/components#attribute-splatting-and-arbitrary-parameters>.

```cshtml
@model TypeNameOfModel
```

In an ASP.NET Core MVC app created with individual user accounts, the *Views/Account/Login.cshtml* view contains the following model declaration:

```cshtml
@model LoginViewModel
```

The class generated inherits from `RazorPage<dynamic>`:

```csharp
public class _Views_Account_Login_cshtml : RazorPage<LoginViewModel>
```

Razor exposes a `Model` property for accessing the model passed to the view:

```cshtml
<div>The Login Email: @Model.Email</div>
```

The `@model` directive specifies the type of this property. The directive specifies the `T` in `RazorPage<T>` that the generated class that the view derives from. If the `@model` directive isn't specified, the `Model` property is of type `dynamic`. The value of the model is passed from the controller to the view. For more information, see [Strongly typed models and the \@model keyword](xref:tutorials/first-mvc-app/adding-model#strongly-typed-models-and-the--keyword).

### \@namespace

The `@namespace` directive sets the namespace of the class of the generated page or view:

```cshtml
@namespace Your.Namespace.Here
```

> If a page or view imports API with an `@namespace` directive, the original file's namespace is set relative to that namespace. 

Author: I didn't write that. This ain't my topic. 😜 lol (... *but I'll see what I can do with it on the 2nd pass*)

In [Razor components](xref:blazor/components), `@using` also controls which components are in scope.

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

## Directive attributes

### \@attributes

Elements can capture and render additional attributes in addition to the element's declared parameters using the `@attributes` Razor directive. This scenario is useful when defining an element that supports a variety of customizations.

In the following example, additional attributes are captured in a dictionary and then applied onto the `<input>` element when the element is rendered:

```cshtml
<input @attributes="InputAttributes" />

@functions {
    private Dictionary<string, object> InputAttributes { get; set; } =
        new Dictionary<string, object>()
        {
            { "maxlength", "10" }, 
            { "placeholder", "Placeholder text" }, 
            { "required", "true" }, 
            { "size", "50" }
        };
```

The type must implement `IEnumerable<KeyValuePair<string, object>>` with string keys.

The preceding code renders the following HTML markup:

```html
<input maxlength="10" placeholder="Placeholder text" required="required" size="50">
```

> ### \@bind

Author: Given that I didn't know that the directive attributes only apply to components, the 2nd draft commit will revert back to coverage in the *Components* topic only, which was approved by engineering when it was written. Of course, we can take a 2nd look at that if you wish.

**Lambda expressions**

Lambda expressions can also be used:

```cshtml
<button @onclick="@(e => Console.WriteLine("Hello, world!"))">Say hello</button>
```

It's often convenient to close over additional values, such as when iterating over a set of elements. The following example creates three buttons, each of which calls `UpdateHeading` passing an event argument (`UIMouseEventArgs`) and its button number (`buttonNumber`) when selected in the UI:

```cshtml
<h2>@message</h2>

@for (var i = 1; i < 4; i++)
{
    var buttonNumber = i;

    <button class="btn btn-primary"
            @onclick="@(e => UpdateHeading(e, buttonNumber))">
        Button #@i
    </button>
}

@code {
    private string message = "Select a button to learn its position.";

    private void UpdateHeading(UIMouseEventArgs e, int buttonNumber)
    {
        message = $"You selected Button #{buttonNumber} at " +
            $"mouse position: {e.ClientX} X {e.ClientY}.";
    }
}
```

> [!NOTE]

> > Do **not** use the loop variable (`i`) in a `for` loop directly in a lambda expression. Otherwise the same variable is used by all lambda expressions causing `i`'s value to be the same in all lambdas. Always capture its value in a local variable (`buttonNumber` in the preceding example) and then use it.

Author: When searching, it's only immediately evident in a VB topic ...

https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/visual-basic/language-reference/error-messages/using-the-iteration-variable-in-a-lambda-expression-may-have-unexpected-results

... which probably explains why I didn't cross-link it.

However, there might be something over there that didn't come up in my searches. @BillWagner, do you know if we have C# coverage similar to that :point_up: VB coverage?

### \@key

The `@key` directive attribute causes the Razor components diffing algorithm to guarantee preservation of elements or components based on the key's value. For more information, see <xref:blazor/components#use-key-to-control-the-preservation-of-elements-and-components>.

### \@ref

> Razor component references (`@ref`) provide a way to reference a component instance so that you can issue commands to that instance, such as `Show` or `Reset`. For more information, see <xref:blazor/components#capture-references-to-components>.

Reviewer 3: Might be valuable to include the note form this section: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components?view=aspnetcore-3.0#capture-references-to-components

| Directive | Function |
| --------- | -------- |

> | [\@addTagHelper](xref:mvc/views/tag-helpers/intro#add-helper-label) | Makes Tag Helpers available to a view. |

Reviewer 3: All these are only valid in Razor views (TagHelpers aren't a thing in Blazor files)
